.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCL_SEND "3" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mcl_send - mcl_sendto - send data to an MCL (MultiCast Library) session


.SH SYNOPSIS

.sp
\fB #include "../src/common/mcl_lib_api.h"\fI

\fB int mcl_send  (int \fIid\fB, const void *\fIbuf\fB, int \fIbuflen\fB);\fI

\fB int mcl_sendto (int \fIid\fB, const void *\fIbuf\fB, int \fIbuflen\fB, const struct sockaddr *\fIsaddr\fB, int \fIsaddr_len\fB);\fI
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION

Sends data on an MCL session, specifying the destination address in
case of the 
.I mcl_sendto
call.
These two calls are non blocking (asynchronous).

Calling 
.I mcl_send()
or
.I mcl_sendto()
with an identifier that does not refer to an
MCL session leads to calling the 
.I send()
or
.I sendto()
system call.


.SH RETURN VALUE

Returns the number of bytes sent on success, or a negative (< 0) value in
case of error.

Note that issuing an
.I mcl_send()
or
.I mcl_sendto()
on a session that is closed by the source triggers an error.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example (sending side):

.nf
        int     id;
        int     len;
        char    buf[BUFLEN];

        if (mcl_send(id, buf, BUFLEN) < 0)
                printf("ERROR: mcl_send failed");
                exit(-1);
        }
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.I MCL
documentation,
.I send()
or
.I sendto()
man pages


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mcl_send.man.3,v 1.2 2003/11/28 10:05:31 roca Exp $
