.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCL_OPEN "3" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mcl_open \- open an MCL (MultiCast Library) session


.SH SYNOPSIS

.sp
\fB #include "../src/common/mcl_lib_api.h"\fI

\fB int mcl_open  (const char* \fImode\fB);\fI
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

Mode can be
.I "w"
to open an MCL sending session (i.e. to be a source),
.I "r"
to open an MCL receiving session (i.e. to receive data).
Two other mode,
.I "wr"
and
.I "rw"
exist in cases where you want to do both. The order is important.
In
.I "wr"
mode, the session is essentially a sending session, while in
.I "rw"
mode the session is essentially a receiving session.
Their use is still a bit experimental.


.SH RETURN VALUE

On success returns an MCL identifier, that will be used thenafter
in all mcl functions, on error a negative (< 0) value.
Note that the MCL identifier is unique in the system file descriptor
space to avoid any possible confusion.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example to open an MCL session as a source.

.nf
        int     id;

        if ((id = mcl_open("w")) < 0) {
                printf("ERROR: mcl_open failed\n");
                exit(-1);
        }
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mcl_open.man.3,v 1.2 2003/11/28 10:05:31 roca Exp $
