.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCL_ABORT "3" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mcl_abort \- abort an ongoing MCL (MultiCast Library) session


.SH SYNOPSIS

.sp
\fB #include "../src/common/mcl_lib_api.h"\fI

\fB int mcl_abort  (int \fIid\fB);\fI
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

Aborts (i.e. closes immediately and non-gracefully) an MCL session.
This call
.B returns immediately.
This function is typically called when the upper application catches
a SIGINT or SIGKILL signal with its signal handler function.
Calling 
.I mcl_abort()
with an identifier that does not refer to an MCL session leads MCL
to return immediately.


.SH RETURN VALUE

Returns 0 on success, a negative (< 0) value in case of error.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example to close an MCL session as a source.

.nf
        int     id;

        if (mcl_abort(id) < 0) {
                printf("ERROR: mcl_abort failed");
                exit(-1);
        }
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mcl_abort.man.3,v 1.2 2003/11/28 10:05:30 roca Exp $
