.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCL_WAIT_EVENT "3" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mcl_wait_event \- wait an event of the MultiCast Library (MCL)


.SH SYNOPSIS

.sp
\fB #include "../src/common/mcl_lib_api.h"\fI

\fB int mcl_wait_event  (int \fIid\fB, int \fIevent\fB);\fI
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mcl_wait_event
enables the application to sleep until the event specified occurs.
It applies to the current session (identified
by the
.B id
identifier).
As this function uses polling, it may not be awaken immediately
after that the expected event has occurred.

The arguments are:

.TP
.B int id
session identifier returned by
.B mcl_open

.TP
.B int event
event name.
.PP

The following events are defined:
.TP
.I MCL_WAIT_EVENT_END_TX:
wait the end of transmission of the last symbol of each layer
(which can take quite a long time on the slowest layer).
Only valid with a traffic source.

.TP
.I MCL_WAIT_EVENT_END_RX:
wait the end of reception (i.e. once enough symbols have been
received to decode all objects) or until the MCL session
has received a ``CLOSE'' message from the traffic source.
Only valid at a receiver.

.TP
.I MCL_WAIT_EVENT_CLOSED:
wait untill a
.I CLOSE
message has been received, meaning that no symbol will ever been
sent for this session.

Using
.I MCL_WAIT_EVENT_CLOSED
requires that a
.I MCL_OPT_NEVER_LEAVE_BASE_LAYER
(see mcl_ctl(3) manual) has been issued at the session start.
Indeed,
.I CLOSE
messages are sent on the base layer and without this option
the receiver leaves the base layer once all objects have been
successfully decoded.


.SH RETURN VALUE

On success returns 0, on error a non-zero value.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example.

.nf
	int	err = 0;

	if ((err = mcl_wait_event(id, MCL_WAIT_EVENT_END_TX)) < 0) {
		printf("ERROR: mcl_wait_event failed\n");
		exit(-1);
	}
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR mcl_open(),
.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mcl_wait_event.man.3,v 1.2 2003/11/28 10:05:31 roca Exp $
