.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCL_CLOSE "3" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mcl_close \- close an MCL (MultiCast Library) session


.SH SYNOPSIS

.sp
\fB #include "../src/common/mcl_lib_api.h"\fI

\fB int mcl_close  (int \fIid\fB);\fI
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

Closes an MCL session.
This call is
.B blocking (i.e. synchronous) on the sending side
to let it send all the data that has not yet been sent.
This call
.B returns immediately on the receiving side.

Calling 
.I mcl_close()
with an identifier that does not refer to an MCL session leads to calling the 
.I close()
system call with that identifier.



.SH RETURN VALUE

Returns 0 on success, a negative (< 0) value in case of error.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example to close an MCL session as a source.

.nf
        int     id;

        if (mcl_close(id) < 0) {
                printf("ERROR: mcl_close failed");
                exit(-1);
        }
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mcl_close.man.3,v 1.2 2003/11/28 10:05:30 roca Exp $
