.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2002 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCLRECV2 "1" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mclrecv2 \- receives a single file using the MultiCast Library (MCL)


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B mclrecv2
.nh
[\fB-h\fP[\fBelp\fP]]
[\fB-a address\fP[\fB/port\fP]
[\fB-l nb_of_layers\fP]
[\fB-p rx_profile\fP]
[\fB-v verbosity_level\fP]
[\fB-m stripping_mode_flag\fP]
.hy


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mclrecv2
is meant to easily test all the advanced features of the MultiCast library
(MCL).
It is a simplified multicast file transfer tool that is used along with
.B mclsend2 .
Compared to the
.B fcast
multicast file transfer tool, it has limited possibilities (e.g. there
is no recursive mode, no attribute is communicated along with the file,
there is no checksum).
Less efforts have also been spent on the tool conviviality (e.g.
concerning the argument names).
But
.B mclsend2 /
.B mclrecv2
are extremely valuable to test and compare many advanced features of the
MCL library as the user controls many (usually hidden) parameters.


.SH OPTIONS

The following arguments can be provided.

.TP
.B \-a address[/port]
Specifies the unicast or multicast address of the base layer (and its UDP
port number).
.I (communicated to MCL)
If no
.B -a
and/or
.B /port
argument is provided, then the default target address and port number of
MCL are used.
With multicast addresses, the address and port number of layers 1 and above
are derived from that of the base layer by MCL (usually by incrementing the
address and port).
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-h[elp]
Short help. Gives the credits and all the possible arguments.

.TP
.B \-l number_of_layers
Specifies the number of layers to use in MCL.
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-m stripping_mode_flag
Specifies if stripping should be used (value of 1, the default)
or not (value of 0).
Stripping a file means that this latter is split into multiple
independent fragments before being submitted to MCL.

.I WARNING: is stripping mode is set in mclsend2, then it must also be set in mclrecv2!

.TP
.B \-p rx_profile
Specifies the reception profile.
Possible values are today:
0 (LOW_RATE_INTERNET), 1 (MID_RATE_INTERNET), and 2 (HIGH_SPEED_LAN).
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.I WARNING: it is important that the transmission and reception profiles match (some parameters like the LCT symbol size are not automatically communicated in the current version of MCL).

.TP
.B \-v verbosity_level
Specifies the level of verbosity desired.
.I (communicated to MCL)


.SH RETURN VALUE

The received file is written to a temporary file, usually
"/tmp/mclftp_xxxx" where "xxxx" is automatically replaced by a locally
unique sequence number. It is left to the user to remove this file or
rename it.

On success returns 0.


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example.
Traces are produced for each symbol received:

.nf
mclrecv2 -v1 -a230.1.2.3/2323
.fi

A more complex example is the following:

.nf
mclrecv2 -a230.1.2.3/2323 -v1 -m1
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR mclsend2 (1),
.BR fcast (1),
.BR mcl_ctl (3),
.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mclrecv2.man.1,v 1.2 2003/10/27 09:55:47 roca Exp $
