.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2002 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 - All rights reserved
.\" (main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)
.\" 
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\"  of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
.\"  USA.


.TH MCLSEND2 "1" "" "MCLv3 Reference Manual"


.SH NAME

mclsend2 \- send a single file using the MultiCast Library (MCL)


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B mclsend2
.nh
[\fB-h\fP[\fBelp\fP]]
[\fB-a address\fP[\fB/port\fP]
[\fB-l nb_of_layers\fP]
[\fB-p tx_profile\fP]
[\fB-v verbosity_level\fP]
[\fB-c\fP]
[\fB-f fec_ratio\fP]
[\fB-t ttl\fP]
[\fB-m stripping_mode_flag\fP]
[\fB-k keep_push_mode_flag\fP]
[\fB-s lct_sched\fP]
[\fB-S object_sched\fP]
.hy


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mclsend2
is meant to easily test all the advanced features of the MultiCast library
(MCL).
It is a simplified multicast file transfer tool that is used along with
.B mclrecv2 .
Compared to the
.B fcast
multicast file transfer tool, it has limited possibilities (e.g. there
is no recursive mode, no attribute is communicated along with the file,
there is no checksum).
Less efforts have also been spent on the tool conviviality (e.g.
concerning the argument names).
But
.B mclsend2 /
.B mclrecv2
are extremely valuable to test and compare many advanced features of the
MCL library as the user controls many (usually hidden) parameters.


.SH OPTIONS

The following arguments can be provided.

.TP
.B \-a address[/port]
Specifies the unicast or multicast address of the base layer (and its UDP
port number).
.I (communicated to MCL)
If no
.B -a
and/or
.B /port
argument is provided, then the default target address and port number of
MCL are used.
With multicast addresses, the address and port number of layers 1 and above
are derived from that of the base layer by MCL (usually by incrementing the
address and port).
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-c
Set the
.I continuous mode
for "on-demand" transmissions (e.g. transmissions where receivers arrive
at their discretion, download the file and leave).
By default it is not set.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-f fec_ratio
Specifies the FEC ratio (a floating point number) to use.
This ratio is given by nb_of_data_symbols / total_nb_of_symbols,
so a fec_ratio of 1.0 means no FEC at all,
a fec_ratio of 2.0 means "as many FEC symbols as there are data symbols", etc.
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-h[elp]
Short help. Gives the credits and all the possible arguments.

.TP
.B \-k keep_push_mode_flag
Specifies if the keep/push mode should be used (value of 1, the default)
or not (value of 0).
This parameter is only meaningful in stripping mode.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-l number_of_layers
Specifies the number of layers to use in MCL.
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-m stripping_mode_flag
Specifies if stripping should be used (value of 1, the default)
or not (value of 0).
Stripping a file means that this latter is splitted into multiple
independent fragments before being submitted to MCL.

.I WARNING: if stripping mode is set in mclsend2, then it must also be set in mclrecv2!

.TP
.B \-p tx_profile
Specifies the transmission profile. 
Possible values are today:
0 (LOW_RATE_INTERNET), 1 (MID_RATE_INTERNET), and 2 (HIGH_SPEED_LAN).
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.I WARNING: it is important that the transmission and reception profiles match (some parameters like the LCT symbol size are not automatically communicated in the current version of MCL).

.TP
.B \-S obj_sched
Specifies the object scheduler (i.e. in stripping mode, in what order should
the objects be scheduled on the various layers).
Currently one can choose
0 (SEQUENTIAL_OBJ_ORDER), 1 (RANDOM_OBJ_ORDER), 2 (PARTIALLY_MIXED_ORDER)
or 3 (MIXED_ORDER).
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-s lct_sched
Specifies the symbol scheduler (i.e. what symbols to send on what layer)
to use. 
Currently one can choose either 0 (send the same symbols on each layer)
or 1 (send data on the base layer, a first set of FEC symbols on layer 1,
a second set of FEC symbols on layer 2, etc.).
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-t ttl
Specifies the time to live (ttl) value of the IP header.
If not specified, the default value of MCL is used instead.
.I (communicated to MCL)

.TP
.B \-v verbosity_level
Specifies the level of verbosity desired.
.I (communicated to MCL)


.SH EXAMPLE

Here is a simple example where the file "/tmp/file_to_send" is sent
using the MCL defaults on group 230.1.2.3 and above.
Traces are produced for each object (if the file is stripped) and each
packet sent:

.nf
mclsend2 -v1 -a230.1.2.3/2323 /tmp/file_to_send
.fi

A more complex example is the following:

.nf
mclsend2 -a230.1.2.3/2323 -v1 -m1 -s1 -S3 /tmp/mclsend2.man
.fi


.SH COPYRIGHTS

.nf
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 INRIA - Universite Paris 6 -
All rights reserved
(main author: Vincent Roca - vincent.roca@inrialpes.fr)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR mclrecv2 (1),
.BR fcast (1),
.BR mcl_ctl (3),
.BR MCL
documentation


.SH AUTHORS

Vincent Roca (INRIA Rhone-Alpes, Planete project)

$Id: mclsend2.man.1,v 1.2 2003/10/27 09:55:47 roca Exp $
