=head1 NAME

SinisterSdp - A C library for parsing and generating SDP session descriptions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <SDP/SDP_Parser.h>
 #include <SDP/SDP_Generator.h>
 ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SinisterSdp is an open source ANSI C library that parses and generates Session
Description Protocol session descriptions for multimedia streaming and VoIP
(Voice over Internet Protocol). The Session Description Protocol is described
in RFC 2327 (http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2327.txt).

This library is divided up into two main components: a parser and a generator.
See the L<SinisterSdpParser|SinisterSdpParser> and
L<SinisterSdpGenerator|SinisterSdpGenerator> documents for how to use
each. L<SinisterSdpDescriptions|SinisterSdpDescriptions> describes
how to use the structures that encapsulate SDP descriptions, and
L<SinisterSdpError.html|SinisterSdpError.html> details the mechanisms by which
SinisterSdp handles errors.

=head1 BUILDING

To build SinisterSdp, just edit and run the Makefile in the "src" directory to
create a binary you can statically link to. See the README file for full
instructions.

=head1 BUGS

Bugs in this package can be reported and monitored using sourceforge.net:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=644250&group_id=106387&func=browse

You can also email me directly:
<william_g_davis at users dot sourceforge dot net>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004 by William G. Davis.

This library is free software released under the terms of the GNU Lesser
General Public License (LGPL), the full terms of which can be found in the
"COPYING" file that comes with the distribution.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut

